---
layout: post
title:  "CV & CL"
date:   2022-02-22 16:39:53 +0530
categories: jekyll update
---

A CV or covering letter is often the first impression you get to make with prospective employers, 
so it's critical these documents make a mark.
Whether you're delivering your story on paper or on an online platform like LinkedIn, 
you will need to include some key points so that your story comes across clearly and persuasively.

CVs and covering letters are often the first opportunity to impress potential employers, 
so it's critical they're done well and tailored to the job you're going for.

Be sure to include the following:

1. Contact information
1. Previous work experience
1. Qualifications
1. Education
1. Personal motivation statement

Check this video : 

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/u6Fu0CT4lzY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Transcript:

Think of your CV as a written summary of your personal, professional and social attributes
that proves why you're the ideal candidate for a job.
While there are no official rules for how it should look,
here are some key points you’ll definitely want to include.
Your contact information, such as your name, phone number and email.
A summary section at the top, describing in 2-3 sentences who you are and what you have to offer.
Details of your previous work experience, including company names, job titles, and start and end dates.
Add a brief summary of your roles and achievements
that emphasise the skills required for the job being applied for.
You’ll also want to include details of any diplomas, certificates or exams you’ve passed
along with the dates and possibly grades if this information is relevant for your industry.
A good practice is to keep your CV limited to only the most relevant and recent information
and share it in a PDF format. 
Make sure your CV stands out, and always tailor your CV to the job you’re applying for.

In summary, here are tips for writing a great CV.
1. Keep it concise and clear, placing the most important and recent information at the top.
1. Remember to proofread for correct spelling and grammar.
1. Avoid overuse of formatting, such as bold, italics or underlining.
1. Stay clear of jargon that won’t be understood by your potential employer
such as acronyms and company specific terms.

Depending on the kind of jobs you’re applying for, you could also consider creating another type of CV
like a LinkedIn profile, or even a personal website.
LinkedIn is a great place to both boost your visibility to employers and connect with likeminded professionals.
When creating a LinkedIn profile, ensure your headline is clear and simple
and use the summary section to include a mix of the past, present and future ambitions.
You should make the most of recommendations from a previous employer or colleague,
and publish these on your profile.
When it comes to describing your previous roles - ensure you focus on skills 
relevant to the job you’re looking for and showcase that you have the relevant experience.
Remember to keep your profile up to date.
That shows potential recruiters you’re organised and passionate about what you can offer them.
Now you’ve completed your CV, it’s time to write a formal covering letter.